README.md, before:

# Mastering Algorithms: Java Edition 🚀

Welcome to your comprehensive Java algorithms learning journey! This curriculum is designed to prepare you for technical interviews and competitive programming on platforms like LeetCode and HackerRank.

## 🎯 Learning Objectives

By the end of this curriculum, you will be able to:
- **Autonomously solve medium-level problems** from LeetCode/HackerRank within 30-45 minutes
- **Master core data structures** and algorithmic paradigms
- **Think systematically** about problem-solving approaches
- **Write clean, efficient Java code** following best practices
- **Analyze time and space complexity** (Big O notation)

## 📋 Progress Tracker

### Initial Assessment
- [ ] **Assessment Questions Completed** - Complete the 3 questions in `ASSESSMENT.md`

### Curriculum Progress

| Week | Topic | Concept Status | Problems Completed | Date Completed |
|------|-------|----------------|-------------------|----------------|
| 1 | Arrays & Strings | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 2 | Basic Math & Bit Manipulation | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 3 | Hash Maps & Sets | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 4 | Linked Lists | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 5 | Stacks & Queues | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 6 | Trees & Binary Search Trees | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 7 | Heaps & Priority Queues | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 8 | Graphs (DFS, BFS, Dijkstra) | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 9 | Recursion & Backtracking | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 10 | Dynamic Programming (1D) | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 11 | Dynamic Programming (2D) | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 12 | Advanced Sorting & Searching | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |

**Legend:** ⏳ Not Started | 🔄 In Progress | ✅ Completed

## 🗺️ Curriculum Overview

### **Week 1: Arrays & Strings**
- Array manipulation techniques
- Two pointers technique
- String processing algorithms
- Sliding window pattern

### **Week 2: Basic Math & Bit Manipulation**
- Mathematical algorithms
- Bitwise operations
- Number theory basics
- Prime number algorithms

### **Week 3: Hash Maps & Sets**
- Hash table fundamentals
- Frequency counting patterns
- Set operations
- Collision handling

### **Week 4: Linked Lists**
- Singly and doubly linked lists
- List manipulation techniques
- Fast and slow pointers
- Cycle detection

### **Week 5: Stacks & Queues**
- Stack-based algorithms
- Queue implementations
- Monotonic stacks
- BFS with queues

### **Week 6: Trees & Binary Search Trees**
- Tree traversal (DFS)
- BST operations
- Tree construction
- Tree validation

### **Week 7: Heaps & Priority Queues**
- Min/Max heaps
- Heap operations
- Priority queue applications
- Top K problems

### **Week 8: Graphs**
- Graph representations
- DFS and BFS
- Shortest path algorithms
- Minimum spanning trees

### **Week 9: Recursion & Backtracking**
- Recursive thinking
- Backtracking patterns
- State space exploration
- Pruning techniques

### **Week 10: Dynamic Programming (1D)**
- DP fundamentals
- 1D DP patterns
- Memoization vs tabulation
- State transitions

### **Week 11: Dynamic Programming (2D)**
- 2D DP problems
- Grid-based DP
- String DP
- Optimization problems

### **Week 12: Advanced Sorting & Searching**
- Advanced sorting algorithms
- Binary search variations
- Search space optimization
- Complex search problems

## 🚀 Getting Started

1. **Complete the Assessment**: Start with `ASSESSMENT.md` to evaluate your current level
2. **Follow Sequential Learning**: Progress through weeks 1-12 in order
3. **Practice Regularly**: Aim for 3-5 problems per week minimum
4. **Track Your Progress**: Update this README as you complete topics

## 📚 How to Use This Curriculum

### For Each Topic:
1. **Read the Lesson**: Start with the `README.md` in each week's folder
2. **Study the Implementation**: Review the `WeekXX_Implementation.java` file
3. **Solve Practice Problems**: Work through the `ProblemXX.java` files
4. **Test Your Solutions**: Run the corresponding JUnit tests
5. **Self-Review**: Use the provided checklist to evaluate your code

### Learning Methodology:
- **Concept First**: Understand the theory before coding
- **Implementation Second**: Study clean, idiomatic Java code
- **Practice Third**: Apply knowledge to solve problems
- **Review Fourth**: Analyze your solution for improvements

## 🛠️ Project Setup

This project uses:
- **Java 17+** for modern language features
- **Maven** for dependency management
- **JUnit 5** for testing
- **Standard Java Collections** framework

### Running Tests
```bash
mvn test                    # Run all tests
mvn test -Dtest=Problem01   # Run specific test
```

### Building the Project
```bash
mvn compile                 # Compile source code
mvn clean compile          # Clean and compile
```

## 💡 Tips for Success

1. **Don't Rush**: Master each concept before moving to the next
2. **Practice Daily**: Consistency beats intensity
3. **Think Out Loud**: Explain your approach before coding
4. **Analyze Complexity**: Always consider Big O for your solutions
5. **Code Review**: Use the provided checklists for self-evaluation
6. **Seek Patterns**: Look for common algorithmic patterns across problems

## 🎯 Success Metrics

- **Week 1-4**: Comfortable with basic data structures
- **Week 5-8**: Confident with intermediate algorithms
- **Week 9-12**: Ready for advanced problem-solving
- **Final Goal**: Solve medium LeetCode problems in 30-45 minutes

---

**Remember**: This is a marathon, not a sprint. Take your time, practice regularly, and don't hesitate to revisit previous topics. Good luck on your algorithms journey! 🌟

Commit message:

Update README with usage instructions for Cursor AI
Added instructions for using the project with Cursor AI IDE and provided alternative options for non-Cursor users.

README.md, after:

# Mastering Algorithms: Java Edition 🚀

Welcome to your comprehensive Java algorithms learning journey! This curriculum is designed to prepare you for technical interviews and competitive programming on platforms like LeetCode and HackerRank.

📢 This project was created using Cursor AI IDE and is designed to evolve dynamically as you progress through your learning journey. Here's how it works:

### For Cursor Users (Recommended Path)
- **Start from the `main` branch** - This contains the foundational structure ready for Week 1
- **Ask the Cursor Agent** to generate subsequent weeks as you complete each one
- **Learn step-by-step** - This approach encourages weekly progression and prevents overwhelming yourself with too much content at once

### For Non-Cursor Users
- **Use the `full-course` branch** - This contains all exercises from Week 1-12
- **Complete freedom** to work through the entire curriculum at your own pace
- **All content available** without needing AI assistance

**Happy coding and learning! Eduardo.**

## 🎯 Learning Objectives

By the end of this curriculum, you will be able to:
- **Autonomously solve medium-level problems** from LeetCode/HackerRank within 30-45 minutes
- **Master core data structures** and algorithmic paradigms
- **Think systematically** about problem-solving approaches
- **Write clean, efficient Java code** following best practices
- **Analyze time and space complexity** (Big O notation)

## 📋 Progress Tracker

### Initial Assessment
- [ ] **Assessment Questions Completed** - Complete the 3 questions in `ASSESSMENT.md`

### Curriculum Progress

| Week | Topic | Concept Status | Problems Completed | Date Completed |
|------|-------|----------------|-------------------|----------------|
| 1 | Arrays & Strings | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 2 | Basic Math & Bit Manipulation | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 3 | Hash Maps & Sets | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 4 | Linked Lists | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 5 | Stacks & Queues | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 6 | Trees & Binary Search Trees | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 7 | Heaps & Priority Queues | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 8 | Graphs (DFS, BFS, Dijkstra) | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 9 | Recursion & Backtracking | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 10 | Dynamic Programming (1D) | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 11 | Dynamic Programming (2D) | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |
| 12 | Advanced Sorting & Searching | ⏳ Not Started | 0/3 | - |

**Legend:** ⏳ Not Started | 🔄 In Progress | ✅ Completed

## 🗺️ Curriculum Overview

### **Week 1: Arrays & Strings**
- Array manipulation techniques
- Two pointers technique
- String processing algorithms
- Sliding window pattern

### **Week 2: Basic Math & Bit Manipulation**
- Mathematical algorithms
- Bitwise operations
- Number theory basics
- Prime number algorithms

### **Week 3: Hash Maps & Sets**
- Hash table fundamentals
- Frequency counting patterns
- Set operations
- Collision handling

### **Week 4: Linked Lists**
- Singly and doubly linked lists
- List manipulation techniques
- Fast and slow pointers
- Cycle detection

### **Week 5: Stacks & Queues**
- Stack-based algorithms
- Queue implementations
- Monotonic stacks
- BFS with queues

### **Week 6: Trees & Binary Search Trees**
- Tree traversal (DFS)
- BST operations
- Tree construction
- Tree validation

### **Week 7: Heaps & Priority Queues**
- Min/Max heaps
- Heap operations
- Priority queue applications
- Top K problems

### **Week 8: Graphs**
- Graph representations
- DFS and BFS
- Shortest path algorithms
- Minimum spanning trees

### **Week 9: Recursion & Backtracking**
- Recursive thinking
- Backtracking patterns
- State space exploration
- Pruning techniques

### **Week 10: Dynamic Programming (1D)**
- DP fundamentals
- 1D DP patterns
- Memoization vs tabulation
- State transitions

### **Week 11: Dynamic Programming (2D)**
- 2D DP problems
- Grid-based DP
- String DP
- Optimization problems

### **Week 12: Advanced Sorting & Searching**
- Advanced sorting algorithms
- Binary search variations
- Search space optimization
- Complex search problems

## 🚀 Getting Started

1. **Complete the Assessment**: Start with `ASSESSMENT.md` to evaluate your current level
2. **Follow Sequential Learning**: Progress through weeks 1-12 in order
3. **Practice Regularly**: Aim for 3-5 problems per week minimum
4. **Track Your Progress**: Update this README as you complete topics

## 📚 How to Use This Curriculum

### For Each Topic:
1. **Read the Lesson**: Start with the `README.md` in each week's folder
2. **Study the Implementation**: Review the `WeekXX_Implementation.java` file
3. **Solve Practice Problems**: Work through the `ProblemXX.java` files
4. **Test Your Solutions**: Run the corresponding JUnit tests
5. **Self-Review**: Use the provided checklist to evaluate your code

### Learning Methodology:
- **Concept First**: Understand the theory before coding
- **Implementation Second**: Study clean, idiomatic Java code
- **Practice Third**: Apply knowledge to solve problems
- **Review Fourth**: Analyze your solution for improvements

## 🛠️ Project Setup

This project uses:
- **Java 17+** for modern language features
- **Maven** for dependency management
- **JUnit 5** for testing
- **Standard Java Collections** framework

### Running Tests
```bash
mvn test                    # Run all tests
mvn test -Dtest=Problem01   # Run specific test
```

### Building the Project
```bash
mvn compile                 # Compile source code
mvn clean compile          # Clean and compile
```

## 💡 Tips for Success

1. **Don't Rush**: Master each concept before moving to the next
2. **Practice Daily**: Consistency beats intensity
3. **Think Out Loud**: Explain your approach before coding
4. **Analyze Complexity**: Always consider Big O for your solutions
5. **Code Review**: Use the provided checklists for self-evaluation
6. **Seek Patterns**: Look for common algorithmic patterns across problems

## 🎯 Success Metrics

- **Week 1-4**: Comfortable with basic data structures
- **Week 5-8**: Confident with intermediate algorithms
- **Week 9-12**: Ready for advanced problem-solving
- **Final Goal**: Solve medium LeetCode problems in 30-45 minutes

---

**Remember**: This is a marathon, not a sprint. Take your time, practice regularly, and don't hesitate to revisit previous topics. Good luck on your algorithms journey! 🌟
